holy crap it's the world's fastest
processor again you know if you look at
the fine print it says they're reaching
The Cutting Edge of CPU frequency to
release the fastest processor ever but
if you start reading between the lines
and specifically down to the footnotes
you might notice that by fastest CPU the
only thing they mean is the frequency
sure it is fast we are talking a 14900 K
with a whopping 6.2 GHz Max tur
frequency apparently uh it that is the
fastest that's the fastest they' ever
done I mean wow packaging wise they
haven't changed anything in a while I
mean this is in theory the last of a
generation the next Intel Desktop CPUs
are very likely going to be not
monolithic anymore and by that I mean
one single die they're going to be
switching to a design somewhat similar
to AMD with
chiplets but this is the new fastest
processor the Intel Core I9 14900 K uh
the video is done I'm done unboxing it
you can see it right here that is all
you need to know Jokes Aside it is a
very similar CPU you're talking the same
core counts you're talking the same
architecture the only thing that's
really changed is the max turbo
frequency and the power limits uh you're
looking at 6.2 GHz like I mentioned
earlier which is up from 6 GHz on the
14900 K was the 13900 K also 6 gz if I
remember correctly I'm getting a knot of
approval so yes uh and the power limit
320 Watt on the pl1 and pl2 and 150 wat
base power which is insane I mean I
think about my 13900 k at home if I turn
MCE on with like no limits with a 360
mil rat and an EK water block just
cooling it I'm I'm stuck at like 340 350
Watts with it sitting at 90° I don't see
how this is going to be that much better
I'm sure it's going to draw a ridiculous
amount of power I mean it has to they
want you without even turning MCE on to
be hitting 320 Watts on this thing I
can't imagine this is going to perform
that much better I'm getting some weird
looks but seriously there's not that
much more to say I mean other than just
trying it out I suspect what's going to
happen is we plug this in and we look at
the lab's results and this is going to
perform marginally better maybe a couple
percent at drastically worse power which
is kind of how it usually is this is a
scary precedent is all I'm saying I mean
you look at AMD you get like a 7 800 x
3D that's a power efficient chip really
good for gaming if you're just gaming I
don't know about this but hey only a
little bit prior judgment let's just see
how it actually performs with this uh
cooler on here what is this the 360 mil
what do they call this the ryuen
360 it's like the easiest short circuit
ever guess what nothing changed our test
bench is running we're in windows I
can't wait to see how obnoxiously power
hungry this is but not before I tell you
about today's sponsor game Power
reminiscence of some of the most popular
PC cases on the market the war cry is a
tried and tested Fusion of style and
substance with six argb fans included
this midtower case supports htx
motherboards fullsize graphics cards and
360 mil radiators and its dual-sided
tempered glass lets you enjoy the beauty
of your build whether you're In the Heat
of the game or need some additional
illumination for that essay you're
typing out so check it out at the link
down alone you can even save on your
purchase do we have cinch let's run cin
bench I don't see C cin bench I mean I
can see it turboing I see 5.9 GHz I
don't see 6.2 cuz that's in theory
that's just in the most optimal of
circumstances One Core will do that
that's the idea likely so here let's do
cine bench One Core seeing a lot of
5.9 oh I see 6.2 holy right there look
at that oh it went away it was there for
like a second see Max 6.2 hell yeah
Intel marketing confirmed they can do it
boys and
girls I mean it was there for like a
second let's try again oh look at that
6.2 holy
sh that was
for it it recorded
6.2 on 1 second increment that's it wow
I'm really feel like I'm getting what I
paid
for now I'm sure the average clock
speeds are are probably similar amount
higher but how much power are we drawing
okay this is only a single core test and
we're we're looking at 80 Watts Let's do
multicore let's see the big scary number
it's probably going to be big and scary
I'm scared and I haven't even done it
yet the aiio is like ripping now yeah it
um it it hits 320 Watts the Turbo Power
wasn't a lie that's like out of the box
put it in a motherboard it's doing 320
Watts I mean with a 360 mil a we're
we're just vibing at like
85 I'm going to restart this thing and
turn all the limits off but in the
meantime let's look at the labs results
because that's more proper testing than
I just did right there but I was right
it draws a lot of
power let's see if it actually performs
any better now before I look at these
Labs results I'm going to look at the
price
$700 oh my God a 14 900k kind of the
current retail suggested price is 560
which makes this a
$140 up charge oh my God it's even more
than a 7950 X not that that is a
well-priced CPU presently but geez let's
look at how it performs I bet you it's
not going to be $140
more Hey look it's not oh my God is it
even better like cyberpunk exact same
performance as the non-ks F12 2023 three
more FPS average Red Dead two more FPS
average the average of all of the games
put together one additional FPS it's
it's weird to think that like 200 MHz
more is not a big deal anymore but when
you think about it when you're already
talking 6 gigahertz you know bumping up
200 MHz more is it's a lot smaller
percentage and it it shows I mean God
look at that non-gaming tests it's
actually slower in some circumstances
probably because it's thermal throttling
would be my guess it's really going to
depend on the cooler you have definitely
make sure you're running this thing on
like 360 mil AIO I mean can an nhd15
even run this thing anymore probably not
sort of can sort of can yeah you
basically just need a water cooler now
just just custom cool your computer
you're spending $700 on a CPU I mean why
not
right uh let's see yeah okay with the
ryuen 3 360 cin 202 the average was 87°
on the 4900 K with a Max of 100 if you
turn on MCE with no limits 96° average
105° Max it's pretty much across the
board at least 10° hotter it's actually
more than 10° 13° hotter than a 1400 K I
mean that makes sense we're talking like
250 watt to 320 wat power limit increase
here so yes it's going to be hotter
naturally oh my God you guys measured 3
67 Watts Peak during the cin bench run
with MCE on oh my
god that's literally more power than a
thread Ripper will draw without turning
PBO on that's insane I mean if you look
across the board in terms of the amount
of power you're consuming per frames you
are kind of delusional to go intel if
you live anywhere where power costs
money is that safe to say I don't know
maybe if you live with your parents you
get free Power right that's how that
works I
don't oh God it's somehow slower in cine
bench multicore which is interesting the
single core of course is like a couple
points higher literally four points
across the board I could see these
variations in just buying multiple CPUs
we've seen our own variations at least
on AMD that were this large or larger
even but let's see how how ridiculous it
is in person remove all limits no
temp let's go it reminds me of when when
they came out with the 5 GHz 8 core and
everyone was like oh my God that's so
much power oh if we only knew where we
were headed
389 oh my
God 38
it's at 102° though you're you're just
at a point where regardless of how much
you know how many radiators you have the
size of the die is not big enough for
this much power unless you're delting
this thing and like direct die cooling
or you're putting probably a copper IHS
on it or something like that we're
getting down after a little bit of
chilling here 370 watts is and just just
casually idling at um 102° it's actually
Beyond wow look at that oh God you know
what it occurs to me we have a 4090 here
what is a 490 Vibe at like 600 watts 500
watts this is almost a kilowatt of power
draw I guess if you you take the power
supply efficiency in there too you're
basically at a kilowatt of power drop if
you were able or using an application
that would load both your CPU and your
GPU weren't we supposed to be saving the
planet or something it's not really
faster aside from like a percent or two
I don't even know what to say I mean
props to Intel congratulations smack on
the back you made the world's fastest
technically speaking frequency CPU if
only it was the fastest everywhere else
it it is very expensive it is very high
on power drw unless you're just like the
dude that wants to have the most balling
his CPU at the L party it's a flex thing
it's like the 8086k you know it's it's
purely just for Ballers if you hate
money you want to light it on fire do it
but otherwise
don't pleas please it's like I went on
Amazon and sorted by most expensive
that's who the CPU is for I'm a little
sad it's it's basically the last
monolithic Intel CPU I can't imagine
they're going to be releasing anything
else like definitely not top tier it's
the end of an era it's it's just this is
the most that this could do this is the
sendoff it's like when a rocket ship
launches and it explodes midair before
it gets there that's what this feels
like because it was hot good job Intel
and good job for you for watching hit
the like button get subscribed maybe
even check out the video that was also
hot because we were in a hot
tub it was not
heated bye